The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Do you have a hot take on this handy? What's your hot take?
I get text messages from people saying, you know,
give me the inside scoop as to what's happening and what I should do.
And I don't have a good answer.
I have the same information sources that everybody else does.
My concern is, uh,
not that we shouldn't protect people that are sick and people that are old.
My concern is that these decisions are being done by politicians and that they,
they want to do this so that they can be elected come reelection.
They don't want people to be upset at them for not acting.
And so they're making these decisions and they're not showing us exactly
how they're going to get out of this.
Like w when you're shutting down Los Angeles for a month,
did just the staggering amount of people that are going to be in debt. And,
and, uh,
and there was some number that we looked it up recently of the amount of people
that live check to check. It's crazy. It's like half of.
The average American,
the stat I saw was that they cannot absorb an expense outside of the normal,
over $400.
Right. That's gone. That's already gone. So already, most Americans are. Now,
just with this dip, and then they're talking about extending this to April 19th.
I just don't, I don't know if they have a plan.
I don't know how they're going to buy their way out of this. Like,
what do you do? How do you, how do you help those folks?
I mean, I'm the wrong person to ask about that, but I would,
I would hope at least at the politicians, I'm sure there's an aspect. Always.
If you are a politician in the back of your mind,
I have to conduct myself in a way where I can get reelected.
Like everything is probably viewed through that,
but I would hope at least that they're viewing it through the
humanity perspective. And as far as the decisions they're making,
I don't think anybody knows what.
To do. Yeah. I don't think anybody knows what to do either.
They feel like they have to do something. So they're doing something
we all need to look at Idris Elba. Cause that guy looks great. He does.
He's still he's. He's got it. He's got it. And it was, I mean, he seems fine,
Tom Hanks. He says he just kinda tired.
It's uh,
I can't make heads or tails of it because if you go the longer you spend on your
phone, I think the more or your computer,
I think the more confused you'll actually become, because I don't know,
to be honest,
who's telling the truth and who is not there's stories of people saying, Hey,
I tested positive for this. I don't have any symptoms. Hey, I live in Italy.
Three people are dead in my hallway and I got sick and I don't feel that good.
And then you watch people walking around in zombie apocalypse suits with,
you know, mop level four gear on not listening to, you know,
how we was walking on the beach yesterday. And you know, there's,
there are people there's a huge social bubbles.
They don't want to be near each other. And from what I can tell,
or from what I'm reading, and again, it's so heads or tails, you know,
you basically have to be coughed or sneezed on or a surface that one of these
infected people have touched or close proximity.
And there's people on the beach walking around and hazmat suits.
Well, the time it's a wild time because of that,
because there's no clear information.
And because you're seeing some people that look really healthy and then you've
seen the stories that come out of Italy.
One thing to take into consideration with Italy is Italy has one of the oldest
populations. They have a lot of old people and a ton of smokers.
Those two factors are huge here because this is a respiratory disease.
Well, don't, they also have, uh, in comparison to the rest of the world,
more generations living in a single household. Yes.
Which I would imagine is going to be, you know, as those generations move on,
you're going to have higher risk people living with people who are lower risk,
but transmitting it.
Yes. That's the real concern.
The real concern is you're going to transmit it to your grandma or someone who's
sick. There was a guy it's weird how the news gives you these stories,
because this was a guy that was 34 years old, that died. And they said,
he just got back from Disneyland. You're like. I thought you live forever.
Once you go to Disneyland, this is crazy. He just got back from Disneyland. How,
like the fact that they put that he just got back from Disneyland was it's all
heartstring pulling stuff. But then if you go deep into the story, this,
this young man just got over testicular cancer,
he had bronchitis and he had asthma.
So there's a lot going on there. He had the deck stacked against him.
We had the deck stacked against him. He's he's immune compromised for sure,
because of coming off of the testicular cancer.
And then on top of that with asthma and bronchitis,
and then he gets a respiratory disease.
Those are the people that really have to worry.
And I really wish there was a clear way to S to
help them other than shutting down everything for a month.
I was talking to Evan heifer this morning called out of the blue.
And we were having kind of a conversation about this.
And he brought something up that just about the, you know,
the narrative and it's, to me what's happening right now is,
is it's interesting from a couple of perspectives for one I've
traveled into world enough and seen people living in a variety of different
living conditions. That right now, in my opinion,
at least people are getting a glimpse into what it is like to live
in the non first world where when maybe you didn't have a grocery store,
but if you go there,
you can't get everything that you want and you can't travel all, you know,
when you always want to,
and you don't have the freedom of movement that you want.
A lot of people live their life, take the virus out of the equation.
A lot of people live their life day-to-day and situations just like this,
or much worse. So I think it's should be eyeopening,
hopefully for people that there's a thin margin between, you know,
the excess and luxury that we have in the first world and how fast that can be
removed. We can start stepping down that staircase. Um,
and it shows to me, you know, I,
I try to view the videos that you see online of people,
fist fighting for toilet paper. I think those are the anomaly.
And I try not to let the anomaly paint the norm.
I don't think most people are doing that,
but there are people that are doing that.
And there are people who are going in and they're hoarding and buying it's.
I don't think the toilet papers are good example.
I can give you 15 different ways to wipe your without toilet paper.
Like you're going to be okay. Like if do you have a garden hose? I mean,
we can start there. I'm not saying it's the most sanitary tub. Yeah.
I've I think I've wiped my with a handful of gravel one time.
Cause that's all that I had. I'm not recommending it, but I'm just, you know,
really. Oh, for sure. It was what was in like close. Yeah. I mean, why not?
I mean, I have had many make it cleaner. I didn't really check.
I didn't have too much time,
but I've had many days where I started with two socks and ended with one I've
had t-shirts that became tank tops. I mean, there's options that you have,
none of these I'm recommending for anybody.
But what I'm saying is the toilet paper is not going to make the difference
between life or death. A weird one to horde.
It's a weird one that people are freaking out about. Oh,
because they're scared of.
Food. Well, but they're scared.
And I find that when people get scared,
like we were talking about right before we went on, um, when people get drunk,
a couple of the layers of their protective,
like this is who I want to portray myself. It starts to strip away.
And what I see are people who are super concerned about me
and far less concerned about we and the conversation I was having with Evan was,
you know, it'd be great if we were talking about, you know,
the people who are going to get crushed and then not a, you know,
an economic expert by any stretch,
but are the ones you already talked about are living paycheck to paycheck.
How about the elderly who are in the high risk category that are on social
security, fixed income.
And they can't even go out right now because they don't feel comfortable getting
groceries that people are going to get destroyed.
And I would love to have a conversation about a social construct or
relationship that we have where we start talking about, you know,
what are we going to do to get food and aid to these people?
What are we going to do to come together and help everybody out instead of and
target hoarding toilet paper. Yeah. And it's, to me,
a lot of that is driven by fear. And a lot of is driven by panic.
And believe me, I'm not an expert at all, probably on anything in my life.
But one thing that I have some experience in is, uh,
surviving and thriving in high risk situations that are high stress,
which is kind of what's going on right now. It's a different type of stress.
And the most dangerous thing you can do is lose control of your emotions or let
your emotions take over your decision-making cycle,
which is what I see people doing. And it's, it's so dangerous.
And I think we need to start finding ways to back away from that and start
talking about the, we greater than me.
I don't think there's a toilet paper shortage.
There's a shortage of people with common sense who are buying too much toilet
paper, which is freaking other people out. So they're buying too much stuff,
which they don't actually need, which is freaking up. You know what I mean?
It's just this cascading effect.
Yeah. It's uh, a fear cascade. Yeah. It's not good.
It's not good. It's also,
this is the first time we've as a nation have been tested like this with a
crisis where the country had to shut down. We don't have any experience in it.
So we don't know what to expect. What a health.
It gives me a little bit of flashes is the right after nine 11,
because we have had times where the country shut down, but it was very,
very brief.
But I remember like the solidarity after nine 11 and it was all about we and not
about me.
And I hope that it trends that direction because who knows when this is going to
end. I mean, my kids are out of school, I think for the year. Yeah.
I think mine as well.
And you know what, if you're a single parent and you have to work, right.
And what if your kids are getting to their three meals per day at school? And I,
and I, you know, the school system in Montana where I live is already, you know,
they're actually doing a really good job come to these locations.
You can get free meals,
but that's assuming the kid has a way to get there because of.
Montana's scalable. Right? There's a million people in the entire state.
The state's a massive, it's not out of control.
California is 40 million people and there's one spot it's so preposterous. Yeah.
And there's so much poverty. There's so many people that are,
we're barely hanging on as it is.
And now they're off the cliff and they don't know what to do.
And there's no real protection set in place now to keep them from being evicted.
I don't believe in unscrupulous landlords,
people that have been looking for a reason to get rid of these people in the
first place, man, who knows, who knows, who knows, what's going to go on,
it's real confusing. It's real confusing.
And if you've seen the stats like the D here, I'm going to show this to you.
Jamie, maybe we could put this up on the, on the screen because it's kinda,
it's, it's,
it's really kinda crazy that this is the choice that they've made to shut
everything down. Um, here, I'm sending this to right now.
Well, you know, it's funny, right? They made that choice last night.
So we got to, we got here Thursday.
So a day before they made that decision and the decision was made last night and
went into effect in exactly the same amount of people or.
Yeah, exactly the same amount. I mean, there's no real law. I mean, it's,
it's more of a recommendation than anything,
but they do have to close businesses.
Well, I think there, we're hoping that people do buy into a social contract.
Like maybe we can care about the we over me, but I just,
you see people not doing that when they're pressed and that,
and that gets rough.